[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM HENRY: Hello.
I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
In January 1991, I gathered,
along with the rest
of the world, around CNN
and watched US forces
on TV storm Kuwait to
save the world from Saddam
Hussein, the Iraqi dictator.
That's also when I began reading
the works of Zecharia Sitchin
Building on the works
of Russian theorists
who have studied ancient
contact with extraterrestrials
or what they called
paleocontact,
Sitchin famously reinterpreted
ancient Sumerian texts
that he claimed told
of extraterrestrials
called Anunnaki, or
shining ones, who
came to Earth from a mysterious
previously unknown planet
X hundreds of
thousands of years ago.
Their base of operation was
Mesopotamia, present day Iraq.
Buried beneath the sands
of Iraq are the secrets
of these shining ones.
Reading Sitchin, I
began questioning
if there was a connection
between the Gulf War
and the ancient ET
intervention in Iraq.
Did we go there for
reasons other than stopping
Saddam Hussein and for oil?
What got me going
was hearing on CNN
that Saddam Hussein
believed himself
to be the reincarnated
soul of the biblical
King Nebuchadnezzar,
the king of Babylon.
And according to Bible
prophecy, the city of Babylon
is destroyed near
the end of the age
just before the second
coming of Jesus.
This means it must be
rebuilt. Saddam Hussein
spent over $500 million
during the 1980s
on the reconstruction and
reestablishment of Babylon
in fulfillment of that prophecy.
Could Saddam have really
been this ancient king
reincarnated in our world?
Just think about the
implications of that.
In 586 BC, Nebuchadnezzar
destroyed the Temple of Solomon
in Jerusalem.
He looted its
treasure, including
the Ark of the Covenant.
He also took 10,000
Jews from Jerusalem
and held them
captive in Babylon.
He needed the wise men
of the Temple of Solomon
to make a golden gadget
that opened a fiery furnace.
Three of these wise men
entered the fiery furnace
and came back with the
Son of God, as in Jesus,
in tow, suggesting that this was
actually some kind of a portal.
In 2002 I broke the story
that Saddam was actually
seeking the stargate
of Nebuchadnezzar,
and the Bush administrations
were out to stop him, again.
Many commentators
picked up on my thesis,
but they didn't
add any new details
to the story of
the fiery furnace
or portal and its
astounding implications
that enabled me to make
this original observation.
And there's still
more to be told
of the reincarnation
of Nebuchadnezzar,
but for now I want to talk
about what the Jews learned
while they were in Babylon.
During their 70 years in Babylon
between 586 BC and 516 BC,
the exiled Jewish people,
including the ascension
prophets Ezekiel
and Daniel, came
into contact with
the Zoroastrians
from Iran, among other
learned scholars.
And they learned many
new doctrines from them.
Zoroastrianism was founded
by Zarathushtra Spitama
of Central Asia.
He was the first messenger
of the wise supreme
being known as Ahura Mazda.
The Greeks called him zoro,
meaning shining, astra, meaning
star.
And foremost among
his teachings is
the idea of bodily
resurrection and ascension.
Before their exile
in Babylon, the Jews
did not believe
in heaven or hell
or in the resurrection
of the body or soul.
They believed that once
you died or were dead,
your soul goes to [HEBREW],
meaning the prison house,
and that was the
end of existence.
But while they were in
Babylon, the Zoroastrians
and the ancient Babylonians
taught them about paradise
and about a final judgment
of all souls and about
the resurrection into
new bodies of light.
When the Jews
arrived in Babylon,
they were greeted by the
fabulous site of the Esagila,
the lofty house.
This ziggurat was dedicated
to the Mesopotamian god
Marduk who is portrayed wearing
a robe covered with stars.
He was a celestial being.
Also called the house
that lifts its head high,
the Esagila was his
place of ascension.
This great ziggurat, meaning
rising building or temple
tower of Babylon, was equivalent
to the step pyramid or stairway
to heaven in
Saqqara, Egypt, where
1,500 years before
Nebuchadnezzar,
the ancient Egyptians operated
a resurrection mystery school
under the direction
of the god Ptah
and where the pharaoh was turned
into a star or a star walker.
Although it is though he
probably never visited Babylon,
the description of Marduk's
second temple, the Etemenanki,
provided the Greek
researcher Herodotus
in his book "The Histories"
astonishing details
about the temple
ritual and its purpose.
The Temple of Bel, he
said, the Babylonian Zeus,
was still in existence in
my time, wrote Herodotus.
It has a solid central
tower, one stadium square,
with a second erected on
top of it, and then a third,
and so on up to eight.
All eight towers can be
climbed by a spiral way running
around the outside,
and about halfway up,
there are seats for those who
make the ascent to rest up.
On the summit of
the top most tower
stands a great temple with
a fine large couch in it,
richly covered, and a
golden table beside it.
The shrine contains
no image, and no one
spends the night in there
except one Babylonian woman,
all alone.
However, it may be that
the god has chosen her
for a specific reason.
The Chaldeans say, though
Herodotus didn't believe them,
that the god, Marduk himself,
enters the temple in person
and takes his rest upon the bed.
What Herodotus had a
hard time believing
is the idea that Marduk,
a celestial being, a god,
manifests as a
human in his temple.
Not only that, but
his intention is
to disrobe and lay with a
human female of his choice.
It's assumed that
he wants to have
sexual intercourse with
her, but it's also possible
that he wanted to take her
to the celestial realms
through the stargate tower.
The ziggurat is a
cosmic pole, a ladder,
or a mountain that leads to
heaven where the gods Marduk,
Samas, Adad, and others dwell at
the throne of the supreme god,
whose name is Anu.
Today, we call such
a place a stargate.
This Etemenanki ascension
tower of ancient Babylon
served as the backdrop for
one of the greatest spiritual
and literary revolutions
the world has ever seen.
It began when the Jewish
mystics returned to Jerusalem
during the fourth century
BC and came into contact
with these teachings.
These teachings
came into fruition
at the time of
Jesus, who is shown
ascending from a spiraling
mountain that highly resembles
the bell tower of Babylon.
We see Jesus entering
the portal of the sun
and becoming one
with all that is.
In her book "Ascent to Heaven in
Jewish Christian Apocalypses,"
Yale scholar Martha
Himmelfarb chronicles how
after the Babylonian captivity,
especially during the three
centuries before
Jesus, the belief that
the boundary between humanity
and the divine, the realm
of the gods, is permeable.
And this belief
became widespread
in the Mesopotamian world.
Until that time, there
was a perceived boundary
between heaven and earth that
was uncrossable by human souls
unless invited.
This meant that only a few
souls actually ascended.
But after the
Babylonian captivity,
a variety of texts
and literature
began to show human beings
routinely crossing the boundary
or ascending.
A rebellion began.
It was as if the cosmic
egg cracked open.
Stargate earth was
open for business.
And the volume, the
number of these texts,
makes it clear that a
large number of humans
crossed this
boundary or ascended.
Avatars such as Apollonius of
Tyana, a student of Pythagoras,
who was born into the
same world as Jesus
and whose miraculous feats
have been compared to him,
began to teach ascension
to the throne of God
as a practical reality.
Assuredly, many
more we have never
heard of attempted
this great feat.
One secret of
boundary crossing is
that by reciting the stories
of the visionary ascents
of past ascenders, one could
you repeat the visionary ascent
of the past ascenders.
Dr. Himmelfarb tells
us that simply reading
about the ascension
in these texts
is powerful in and of itself.
The stories are
visualization and mind maps.
This is more than just
a thought experiment.
As one thinks about
it and visualizes
or replicates their
ascension in their mind,
one begins to live their
ascension in advance.
Just thinking about our
ascension builds anticipation.
It concretizes it in our minds.
And to me, this suggests
that these texts are coded
to tap the mythic imagination.
A whole body of Jewish
and Christian literature
called Merkabah mysticism
emerged at this time,
and comprises what may be
thought of as flight simulation
training manuals or
boundary crossing
for the ascent of the soul
manuals, manuals that teach us
how to ascend to
the divine throne,
traveling through the
halls or holes of space
on our souls wind ring.
I refer to these taxes as
ascension simulation texts.
I once had a conversation
with a fighter pilot
who said you have
to simulate it to be
able to do it in real life.
And this is exactly what
we're describing, repeating
over and over in our minds
the path of ascension
so that when we actually
ascend, we are prepared and know
exactly what to do.
These texts actually can take
us to the stars in this way.
And the thing is that these
ascension secrets may still
be buried in Iraq,
unless someone found them
like Saddam Hussein, or
perhaps someone else.
It's absolutely mind
boggling to think
that Saddam Hussein really was
a case of reincarnation playing
out right before our very eyes.
And it's even more
tantalizing to think
that the secrets of
ascension may still
be out there to be discovered.
One thing is clear-- these
secrets appear to have
originated with the Anunnaki.
And a lot of people
don't know this
because they've been distracted
in a way by Sitchin's theory
that the Anunnaki came here
not to teach us ascension
but in search of some
mysterious blue stones and gold
to repair the decaying
atmosphere of their home
planet, and that they created
humans as a slave race
to do this work for them.
While Sitchin's theory
is not supported
by the Sumerian text,
which say nothing
about the Anunnaki
coming to Earth for gold,
virtually all open minded
historical and theological
scholars do agree that the Old
Testament's book of Genesis
was extracted from older
Sumerian records, the stories
of the Anunnaki.
The Enuma Elis, the Sumerian
epic of creation for example,
and the book of Genesis have
a variety of common elements.
Stories about great flood and
a deluge, among other stories,
are also common to both
Sumerian and biblical accounts,
as are the appearance
of otherworldly beings.
The conflict in these
accounts is always
about human ascension.
One faction wants to
see humans ascend even
to the level of the
gods, but the other
wants to keep us as
slaves and sex objects.
The Sumerian records
recorded in great detail
the stories of these
celestial Anunnaki.
And among these we learn
especially the story of Enki
and Enlil, Ninki, Inanna,
Utu, Ngeshtin-ana,
Marduk, and many others.
Chief among these stories
was the continuing conflict
between Enki and Elul, the
sons of the supreme god Anu.
And much of ancient
human history
and the biblical
book of Genesis can
be explained as the conflicts
between these two half brothers
and how they affected the
life of all sentient beings
on Earth.
It was Enki who sought
to uplift humanity
to the level of the gods.
He was later demonized
as the serpent of Eden.
It was Enlil who sought to keep
us limited in our abilities.
Ancient astronaut
theorists as they're called
and proponents of ancient
alien intelligent design
propose that the evidence
strongly advocates the concept
that Adam and Eve and their
ancestors, their cousins,
were created by
genetic engineering
and mixing the DNA
of the Anunnaki
with that of Homo
erectus, the reigning
progenitor of man at that time.
For years I was enamored by
the story of the Anunnaki,
and I greatly
admire Mr. Sitchin.
He was a true curmudgeon.
But then I began
lecturing with him,
and did so numerous
times with him
around the world at conferences,
up until his death in 2010.
For millions, his
theories became a tower
that enabled them to rise high
and see further into our past.
But then that tower began
to be eroded by scholar
after scholar who were quite
contentious about Sitchin's
theories.
For me, the story of
them, the Anunnaki
coming to Earth to mine
gold, just didn't add up.
It didn't make sense to me that
these advanced beings would
come clear across
the solar system
just for gold and those
mysterious blue stones.
I know that gold is a rare
commodity in the universe,
but the Anunnaki
are supposed to have
been at least the level of
technological advancement
that we are today.
And we're less than 100 years
from warp drives, a la Star
Trek, and nanofabrication.
But the Anunnaki had to
come here in rocket ships
to create a slave
race to mine gold?
Didn't believe that.
What triggered my doubt
was Sitchin's assertion
that Enki, the god who retooled
our DNA, was also an alchemist.
And alchemists,
we know, endeavor
to turn base metals into gold.
So why didn't Enki simply
grab a hunk of space rock
and transmute it?
The reason I propose is
because the higher actual goal
of an alchemist is to turn
our leaden soul into pure gold
through a process
of self-purification
and self-realization.
It was then that I realized
that this story told in poetry
is a parable for purifying
in the ascent of the soul.
The story of the Anunnaki
is about them coming here
to assist us in our
ascension into the stars.
And this is humanity's
oldest story.
So abandoning or diverting
from Sitchin's they
came for gold
hypothesis, I propose
that the Anunnaki actually
came here on a mission
to help us to purify our
souls and to assist us
in our transformation
or ascension
into celestial beings.
And I began to seek evidence
that they tweaked our DNA
to make the human body
a more conducive vehicle
for the soul's ascension.
The great work that
we did for the gods
was not about mining gold.
It was about lifting our
soul out of this realm.
It's important to note
that in Sitchin's theory,
the pretext of the Anunnaki
was a cosmic cataclysm.
Two planets, one called Tiamat,
the other called An or Nibiru,
but referred to as Planet
X, collided, leaving
one of these planets shattered.
As a result of
this confrontation,
Tiamat was split in two.
One half of Tiamat
became the asteroid belt.
The other half became Earth.
Earth is the daughter of Tiamat,
if not Tiamat reincarnated.
The Babylonians
called Tiamat "Mer"
and believed that
it was from her
that the original matter that
formed the Earth was created.
Various myths say
that Tiamat or "Mer"
produced the fluid of creation,
which was blood or DNA.
By splitting or
dividing Tiamat in two,
this marauding planet
released an ocean of blood
into the cosmos.
But blood is lifeless
without soul.
So what if Tiamat also
released souls into the cosmos?
What happened to those souls?
Are we those souls?
The ancients tell us
that Tiamat was once one
of the Pleiades, a star cluster
in the constellation Taurus
the bull.
Interestingly, the Cherokee
Indians of East Tennessee
say that we were
created by light beings
from the please who wrote
a sound way through a hole
in space over East Tennessee
and created the Cherokee
as guardians of one
of 12 vortexes spread
around the planet.
It's crucial to note
that the ancients used
a dove, a symbol of the
soul, as a symbol for Tiamat.
And the Babylonians called the
Pleiades the flock of ducks.
The Greeks called
them the Atlantides.
And at the annual
Babylonian reenactment
of the splitting of
Tiamat and its Atlantis
like sinking into the
waters of the night,
a dove was split in
half in imitation
of Nibiru splitting of Tiamat.
In Sumerian myth,
Nibiru split Tiamat
into two parts, upper
waters and lower waters.
The Hebrew scribes
recorded that their god
divided the waters that
were under the firmament
from the waters that
were above the firmament,
a perfect correlation.
This sounds to me like
the souls of Tiamat,
this cosmic Atlantis
if you will,
were roaming free
in the cosmic ocean,
or perhaps they were
attached to the sunken planet
and they needed to be rescued.
Enter the Anunnaki.
As told in the Atra-Hasis, an
18th century BC Akkadian epic,
our earthly bodies were
created by this god Enki
from the flesh and blood
of a rebel god named Kingu
who was envisioned as a dragon.
And Kingu was
actually considered
to be a son of Tiamat.
Enki in this scenario was
the leader of the Anunnaki,
and he was sent here on
a soul rescue mission.
His companion,
the goddess Nintu,
mixed Kingu's spirit,
which she pulled
from his flesh and blood, with
the clay, or DNA, of the earth.
Berossus, an ancient
historian, says
that Kingu's life was mixed
with the blood of the earth,
suggesting that that
clay could indeed
be a reference to blood or DNA.
And for this reason,
says Berossus,
men are intelligent and have
a share of divine wisdom.
Or is it rather than we have
a share of the divine soul?
In fact, according to
the ancient Sumerian
epic of Gilgamesh,
dating from 2,100 BC,
we are 2/3 divine
and one third human.
Seen here is an original copy
of this epic from the Chicago
Oriental museum.
In the story, we are
told of our divinity,
and we are told that Kingu
was the son of the goddess
Tiamat, who was slain by Enki's
son Marduk, the storm god.
Some authors describe Tiamat
as a serpent or dragon.
And here is the reptilian
code once again.
In the fantastic Babylonian
creation epic the Enuma Elis,
Tiamat gives birth to
serpents and dragons.
And from Tiamat's
slain body, Marduk
took the prized
tablets of destiny
and then transformed
it into the universe.
These tablets are
believed to be made
of the mysterious blue stones
sought by the Anunnaki,
and may in fact be the original
mystical or cosmic matter out
of which Tiamat was made.
So Enki was the god who was
called or sent in to clean up
the mess of this cosmic event.
Why Enki?
Was it because he
was a geneticist?
That's part of it, but Sumerian
scholar Samuel Noah Kramer
says that Enki also
knows the way in and out
of the world below and the
afterlife world of the dead.
That means that
Enki knows his way
around the world of the soul.
He is a soul specialist.
And navigating the
afterlife is actually
the concern or specialty
of Enki's priests, who
are called the Apkallu These
incredible sagely beings appear
dressed in fish robes
or scaly garments.
This cloak is a symbol
for their awakened status
as swimmers or dwellers
of the cosmic ocean.
The Apkallu were personified
as traditionally seven culture
heroes sent by Enki
to teach mankind
the arts of civilization
and the secrets of heaven,
the secrets of soul ascension.
This is the ultimate
secret of the Anunnaki.
One of the Apkallu
is called Oannes.
He ascended to heaven
where he met the great god
Anu on his throne.
And he famously was
offered the secret
of the mortality of the gods,
the Anunnaki, but refused it.
We note that these
wise beings carry
what appear to be hand bags.
This actually tame these
mysterious heavenly
blue stones or tablets, referred
to as the heavenly book,
that are described in Near
Eastern ascension stories.
After creating human kind and
up leveling our soul awareness,
Enki was summoned to
heaven by the other gods
and was punished for
creating the first human.
The first human, called
Adapa, Enki took on the road
to heaving according to
the Sumerian stories.
Adapa's name means wise.
And according to the
Assyrian references
to the wisdom of Adapa,
he composed a book
of sciences titled "Writings
Regarding Time From Divine
Anu and Divine Enlil."
Adapa thus is
credited with writing
mankind's first
book of astronomy,
the calendar, and ascension.
In another story about the
Emmeduranki, the tower that
reached into the heavens, we
learned of the king of Sippar,
where he too was loved by the
gods, especially the sun god
Samas.
In this story, Samas sends
him to a secret chamber
where he enters the great
golden throne of the gods.
And upon arrival, the
great gods Anu and Enki
teach him the secrets of
the tablets of the gods,
the bag with the mystery of
heaven and earth, oil on water,
and the mysterious cedar staff.
Again, the tablets are
the symbol of sovereignty
and contain the
secret of ascension.
They are identical to
the tablets of destiny,
the tablets of wisdom, the
law of heaven and earth,
the tablets of the gods.
They contain the supreme
wisdom about the workings
of the universe and
the ascension of humans
into celestial beings.
In this story, Emmeduranki
crossed the boundary of heaven
and brought these
tablets back to Earth.
He then shared his
knowledge with his family.
So from the stories of Oannes
and Adapa and Emmeduranki,
we learn for the first time
that a human being can ascend.
A human being can cross the
boundary between the material
realm of humans and enter the
transcendent, immaterial realm
of the gods, make
an ascent to heaven,
see the celestial realms, enter
the secret chamber of the gods,
experience the presence
of god, and be transformed
into an angel by
that experience,
and then return to earth
to tell everyone about it
and inspire them to
believe that they too
can take this ultimate journey.
Though we have disputed
or questioned the claim
that the Anunnaki came
to Earth for gold,
we can learn a lot about
the nature of our soul
by comparing it to gold.
Technically and
alchemically speaking,
gold is a soft, shiny,
yellow, heavy, malleable,
and ductile metal.
It is also a trivalent
or univalent,
which means it's a
transitional metal.
It can phase from
one form to another.
As a transitional metal,
gold is symbolic of our souls
flexibility, and
our own flexibility
on our spiritual path
while life experiences
galvanize our faith.
Because of its resistance
to heat and acid,
gold as a symbol of
immutability, eternity,
and perfection in all
matter on any level.
So it's for these reasons
that gold symbolizes
humankind's quest to perfect,
illuminate, and refine
ourselves.
We all start out like
Athena in this statute,
needing a golden robe or a
coat to complete ourselves.
This golden code is known as
the golden robe or golden body
or light body.
It is seen in the Golden
Fleece of the sacred lamb
in this tale about the
acquisition of this Golden
Fleece that is guarded
by the serpent or dragon,
the reptilian code again.
In Tibet, the
perfect body is known
as the rainbow body of light.
This is a plasma body
that is shot with gold.
And attaining the golden body
or light body, we are told,
is our soul's greatest aim
and its ultimate source
of protection.
So we have the
Anunnaki to thank us
for these original
stories that tell us
that we can in fact attain this
incredible state of perfection.
One key to attaining
this perfection
is the golden dorje that's
shown here in the Guru
Padmasambhava's hand.
This golden dorje stands
for compassion and action.
This is actually the
golden key of life
to the Tibetans,
compassion and action.
In Christian symbolism, gold
is considered an attribute
or virtue of the soul.
This gives gold such attributes
as vitality, life, health,
radiance, wisdom, clarity,
unification, virtue, and light.
These are the vibrations
to which the soul aspires.
And as we take
actions in our lives
that mirror these vibrations,
we begin to transform ourselves
into golden beings.
We embody these virtues.
Golden hues are quite
often used in Christian art
to convey the concept
of divine love.
The golden halo in
art is also a symbol
of the soul glowing from within.
And as we continue in our
quest in the awakened soul,
we're going to learn a lot
more about the Anunnaki
secrets of putting on this
immaculate robe of light,
the robe with the
soul, and their search
for this mysterious blue stone.
More, we will seek
this gold within us.
Until next time, stay humble.
Let your light shine.
And namaste.
[THEME MUSIC]